---
title: Homework
module: 7
jotted: false
toc: false
topic: Homework
---


This week I want you to recreate, **then push beyond** Simon's tutorial creating a TouchDesigner based artwork.

Ideas of what to do:

- manipulate operator parameters to better understand what they do
- add new or additional operators to the network
- rearrange operator signal flow in the network
- change inputs within a network (i.e. webcam, movie, noise, etc. )
- _or something else that you want to try, experiment with, and explore!_
- add interactivity

You do not need to recreate the wheel or start with a blank canvas. _Please_ feel free to build on the work of this tutorial in a direction that is most interesting to you.

## Specifications

1. The work of art must build on and go beyond the tutorial (this can be accomplished through ideas listed above)
2. Keep notes about your experimental process


## Deliverables

1. Follow the submission guide from [Week 2](https://montana-media-arts.github.io/340-interactive-art/modules/week-2/homework/) .

1. TouchDesigner Network
	1. You are required to submit your TouchDesigner Network this week.
	2. To do this, you will need to _zip_ the containing project folder for the network.
	3. If you have any media assets that you are utilizing (_this would only be the case if you added something beyond the tutorial_), please remember to include those within the network project directory, so that they are also zipped.
2. Screen Shots, Capture, and Renders
	1. Create a video of your TouchDesigner work using the [_Movie File Out_ operator, as discussed in this week]({{site.baseurl}}/modules/week-3/recordVideoOut/) 
	2. Alternatively, you can use [OBS to take a screen recording of your TouchDesigner network and resulting output]({{site.baseurl}}/modules/week-2/captureYourDisplay/).
	3. (If you have audio) Include Audio in your final submission video
	4. Take detailed Screen Shots of your node network for documentation.
3. Write Up: Provide written documentation of process and experience with this project.
	1. Describe the visual. Explain your creative process.
	2. How is it interactive?
	3. What problems did you run into this week, and how did you solve them? 
	4. What's next? How would you push this further?
	5. How was your experience working in TouchDesigner this week?  How would you approach this project differently?
4. Check out your colleagues work for this week.  Leave a comment or a brief critique.  

Works Cited: If you used any outside sources for this project.  Please cite them at the bottom of your post with a link to the source.

## Upload

You will upload your videos and images to the homework submission forum. You should also paste in your response as text to the post. 

Please submit all delieverables to the homework submission forum.

- [Week 7-Generative Noise Displacement- HW Submission Forum](https://moodle.umt.edu/mod/hsuforum/view.php?id=2636652)
