---
title: Homework
module: 7
jotted: false
toc: true
math: false
topic: Homework
---


For this week, I want you to create an _ORIGINAL_ artwork that explores the ideas of audio reactive works.



Please take this as an opportunity to play and explore.

## Specifications

1. The work of art should explore particle systems as a creative concept
2. Keep notes about your experimental process


## Deliverables

1. TouchDesigner Network
	1. You are required to submit your TouchDesigner Network this week.
	2. To do this, you will need to _zip_ the containing project folder for the network.
	3. If you have any media assets that you are utilizing (_this would only be the case if you added something beyond the tutorial_), please remember to include those within the network project directory, so that they are also zipped.
2. A recording of your TouchDesigner Network work.
	1. This can be accomplished using the [_Movie File Out_ operator, as discussed in Week 3]({{site.baseurl}}/modules/week-3/recordVideoOut/).
	2. Alternatively, you can use [OBS to take a screen recording of your TouchDesigner network and resulting output]({{site.baseurl}}/modules/week-2/captureYourDisplay/).
3. Written reflection of this weeks tutorial and your derivative artwork assignment.
	1. You can submit this written response as text in the forum post or as a pdf document.


Please submit these three files to the homework submission forum on Moodle. Although you are not required to, I would also encourage you to check out your colleagues' work for this week, so that you are aware of the types of directions everyone is heading in.
