---
title: Mid-Term Project
module: 9
jotted: false
toc: true
math: false
topic: Mid-Term Project
---

For the Mid-Term project you will utilize all the concepts and topics covered from week 1 to 8 and apply it to a daily sketch practice.  Design an ORIGINAL concept or theme that can be iterated and included any of the modalities of interactivity.  You will have a minimum of 6 sketches that will be composed into a demo reel. 

## Specifications

- **Create** something every day.
- **Iterate**. This does not need to be completely original or new every day, it just needs to be done and completed.
- **Document**. You need to create a documentation video of your thing for everyday. This can be as short as 5 second and as long as 30-60 seconds.
- **Save**. Make sure you save your sketch, documentation, and associated work.

## Deliverables

1. Follow the submission guide from [Week 2](https://montana-media-arts.github.io/340-interactive-art/modules/week-2/homework/) .

2. Demo Reel
	1. Combine a minimum of 6 sketch videos into a demo-style reel
	2. Demo Reel must show how each sketch is interactive (include audio if it is audio-reactive)

3. Documentation 
   Provide written documentation of process and experience with this project.
	1. Describe your concept or theme
	2. Discuss the visual and how it relates to your theme or concept
	3. How is it interactive? Which modality of interactivity did you choose and why? (You can use more than one modality)
	4. Provide screenshots of your iterative process

Works Cited: If you used any outside sources for this project.  Please cite them at the bottom of your post with a link to the source.

## Video Description

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9"><iframe class="embed-responsive-item" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/e9duohvhga4" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

> Please note: the above video says you only need 5 videos, submitted separately. Instead, you should combine 6 sketches into a demo reel and upload that video.

## Upload

You will upload your videos and images to the homework submission forum. You should also paste in your response as text to the post. 

Please submit all delieverables to the homework submission forum.

- [Week 9-Daily Sketch Practice- Mid-Term Submission Forum](https://moodle.umt.edu/mod/hsuforum/view.php?id=2447346)





