---
title: Homework
module: 4
jotted: false
toc: true
math: false
topic: Homework
---


For this week, I want you to create an _ORIGINAL_ artwork that explores the ideas of feedback utilizing any of the modalities of interactivity in this weeks content.

- You could explore feedback for animation or generative visuals.
- You could alternatively import a video with a transparent/chroma background, that you explore feedback with.
- Or you might consider how feedback could be explored in 3D.
- Make it interactive; you may use a webcam, keyboard inputs, mouse tracking, or on click that must drive the art work.

Please take this as an opportunity to play and explore.

## Specifications

1. The work of art should explore feedback as a creative concept
2. The works should include interactivity
3. Keep notes about your experimental process


## Deliverables

Follow the submission guide from [Week 2](https://montana-media-arts.github.io/340-interactive-art/modules/week-2/homework/) .

1. TouchDesigner Network
	1. You are required to submit your TouchDesigner Network this week.
	2. To do this, you will need to _zip_ the containing project folder for the network.
	3. If you have any media assets that you are utilizing (_this would only be the case if you added something beyond the tutorial_), please remember to include those within the network project directory, so that they are also zipped.
2. Screen Shots, Capture, and Renders
	1. Create a video of your TouchDesigner work using the [_Movie File Out_ operator, as discussed in this week]({{site.baseurl}}/modules/week-3/recordVideoOut/).
	2. Alternatively, you can use [OBS to take a screen recording of your TouchDesigner network and resulting output]({{site.baseurl}}/modules/week-2/captureYourDisplay/).
	3. Take detailed Screen Shots of your node network for documentation.
3. Write Up: Provide written documentation of process and experience with this project.
	1. Describe the work.  Why make the creative choices in developing this piece? Explain your thought process.
	2. How is it interactive and why is it vital to your art piece?
	3. What problems did you run into this week, and how did you solve them? 
	4. What's next?  How could you push this?
	5. How was your experience working in TouchDesigner this week?  Are you happy with what emerged?
4. Check out your colleagues work for this week.  Leave a comment or a brief critique.  How did their work make you feel?  What worked?

Works Cited: If you used any outside sources for this project.  Please cite them at the bottom of your post with a link to the source.

## Upload

You will upload your videos and images to the homework submission forum. You should also paste in your response as text to the post. 

Please submit all delieverables to the homework submission forum.

- [Week 4- Feedback- HW Submission Forum](https://moodle.umt.edu/mod/hsuforum/view.php?id=2299987)

