---
title: Homework
module: 4
jotted: false
toc: false
topic: Homework
---


I want you to recreate, **then push beyond** Simon's tutorial creating a TouchDesigner based artwork.

Ideas of what to do:

- manipulate operator parameters to better understand what they do
- add new or additional operators to the network
- rearrange operator signal flow in the network
- change inputs within a network (i.e. webcam, movie, noise, etc. )
- _or something else that you want to try, experiment with, and explore!_

You do not need to recreate the wheel or start with a blank canvas. _Please_ feel free to build on the work of this tutorial in a direction that is most interesting to you.

## Specifications

1. The work of art must build on and go beyond the tutorial (this can be accomplished through ideas listed above)
2. Keep notes about your experimental process


## Deliverables

1. TouchDesigner Network
	1. You are required to submit your TouchDesigner Network this week.
	2. To do this, you will need to _zip_ the containing project folder for the network.
	3. If you have any media assets that you are utilizing (_this would only be the case if you added something beyond the tutorial_), please remember to include those within the network project directory, so that they are also zipped.
2. A recording of your TouchDesigner Network work.
	1. This can be accomplished using the [_Movie File Out_ operator, as discussed in Week 3]({{site.baseurl}}/modules/week-3/recordVideoOut/).
	2. Alternatively, you can use [OBS to take a screen recording of your TouchDesigner network and resulting output]({{site.baseurl}}/modules/week-2/captureYourDisplay/).
3. Written reflection of this weeks tutorial and your derivative artwork assignment.
	1. You can submit this written response as text in the forum post or as a pdf document.
	2. Please also take a few moments to write about your reaction to the Simon Alexander-Adams tutorial, as well as the connected links.
	3. Additionally, please take a moment to reflect on your experience with the derivative artwork assignment from this week. You may choose to address questions such as;
      - Are you feeling more comfortable in TouchDesigner?
      - Are you starting to get a sense of what TouchDesigner can do?
      - Are you starting to get a sense of how TouchDesigner could be utilized in your creative practice?
      - What problems did you run into this week, and how did you solve them?
      - Are you happy with what emerged from your work this week?

Please submit these three files to the homework submission forum on Moodle. Although you are not required to, I would also encourage you to check out your colleagues' work for this week, so that you are aware of the types of directions everyone is heading in.
