---
title: Weekly Introduction
module: 10
toc: false
topic: Week 10&#58 Overview
---



Active: {{ site.data.dates[page.module][0] }}

Homework Due: {{ site.data.dates[page.module][1] }}

<br />


For this week I want you to do two things.

1. Watch and respond to the group critique of the Daily Sketch Journal Reels.
2. Propose a Final Project


# 1. Daily Sketch Journal Reel Response (Demo Reel Critique)

Please watch the critique video from your daily sketch journals (demo reels). 

 [https://umontana.zoom.us/rec/share/YU2zNtk8PWFMKYYs2Eh9FXUvKEHI5Fgnm5ioeFZMEag_FMB2m3VC9pqbBEMIl6I4.ZiGLD_9P8RYND3wE](https://umontana.zoom.us/rec/share/YU2zNtk8PWFMKYYs2Eh9FXUvKEHI5Fgnm5ioeFZMEag_FMB2m3VC9pqbBEMIl6I4.ZiGLD_9P8RYND3wE)

We ask that you then submit a response with at least two paragraphs discussing the following:

* Your reaction to our critique of your work, as well as a discussion about how you view your work after also watching everyone else’s.
* Your reaction to the work of the class. What are you noticing as emergent themes, and what are you liking and not liking?


# 2. Initial Final Project Proposal

At this point, there are just over five weeks left in the semester. To conclude your experience this semester with this course, you will be expected to create a final media art-based project, using TouchDesigner.

## Expectation Discussion

These final projects will be due: **Monday, April 19th @ noon**.

You will be expected to create a media art-based work that explores a topic of interest you have. Furthermore, building in the work from this semester, this work should be developed in TouchDesigner.

To submit this work, you will upload;

1. The TouchDesigner Network file, along with any associated external media. This will be uploaded as a .zip file.
2. A screen capture of the network, working in your computer.
3. A video representing the artwork in the best way possible. (This will likely be a video recording of the TD output in “performance” mode.)
4. A discussion of your experience, the artwork, and future work you intend to complete with TouchDesigner.

## Proposal Discussion

In starting to contemplate a final project proposal. You should consider what you have seen, done, experienced, and contemplated about TouchDesigner so far this semester.

By now, you have seen how powerful, complex, and diverse the output potential for TouchDesigner is. Hopefully, you have found specific topics, ideas, or projects that have peeked your interest, or that you have wondered about completing yourself in TouchDesigner?

Please take some time this week to write down a list of ideas about what you may want to do for a final project. After completing some brain storming, you should do some research as to the feasibility of your project idea in TouchDesigner. You can look for ideas about what you might do and what you are contemplating by looking at tutorials and examples from the Derivative website, searching YouTube, searching alltd.org, and generally searching the web.

You are not expected to necessarily create this project from scratch. TouchDesigner is a big and complex environment. Instead, I suspect that many of you will combine elements and ideas from multiple tutorials and TouchDesigner examples. In other words, I expect many of you to use material and code from other people, that you pull together with additional code, and alter beyond the original. These should not be duplicative, but will contain derivative elements from other people’s work.

You should pull together a list of references (tutorials, artwork examples, blog post discussions, etc.) that prove your idea may be feasible.

For this week, you are to submit a 1-3 paragraph discussion of what you might want to complete or attempt for a final project. This discussion should be as detailed as possible and should include any images you can offer to help ground your discussion. Following this discussion, please provide the list of references mentioned above.

Please save these initial proposals as PDF documents and upload them to the proposal upload forum below as the second part of your homework for this week.

Final Project Proposal Deadline: **Monday, April 5th by midnight**.
