---
title: Syllabus
permalink: /:title/
toc: false
topic: Syllabus
---



# Introduction to the Language and Practice of Sonic Art (MART 245)

Date modified: Aug-18-2020

**Table of Contents**

<!-- TOC depthFrom:1 depthTo:2 withLinks:0 updateOnSave:0 orderedList:0 -->


- [Course Overview](#course-overview)
    - [Basic Info](#basic-info)
    - [Professor/Instructor](#professorinstructor)
    - [Description](#description)
    - [Objectives & Student Learning Outcomes](#objectives--student-learning-outcomes)
    - [Course Modality/Format](#course-modalityformat)
    - [Course Websites](#course-websites)
    - [Pre-Requisites](#pre-requisites)
    - [Books, Supplies, & Technology](#books-supplies--technology)
- [Policies](#policies)
    - [Course Evaluation](#course-evaluation)
    - [Grades](#grades)
    - [Zoom Related Information](#zoom-related-information)
    - [Academic Honesty, Plagiarism, and Cheating Policy](#academic-honesty-plagiarism-and-cheating-policy)
    - [Sensitive Subject Matter & Censorship](#sensitive-subject-matter--censorship)
    - [Be Kind](#be-kind)
    - [Diversity Statement](#diversity-statement)
    - [Students with Disabilities](#students-with-disabilities)
    - [COVID-19 Specific Information](#covid-19-specific-information)
    - [Changes to the Course](#changes-to-the-course)

<!-- /TOC -->


# Course Overview

## Basic Info

- Name: Principles of Sound Design | Intro to Sonic Art
- Course Number: MART 330
- CRN: 72361
- Credits: 3
- Location: Online/Asynchronous (with optional weekly zoom session)
- Date/Time: Optional weekly zoom session -- Tu, 11:00am - 12:30pm
- University Unit: [School of Visual and Media Arts (SVMA)](https://www.umt.edu/svma/), [College of the Arts and Media (CAM)](https://www.umt.edu/umarts/), [University of Montana](https://www.umt.edu)

## Professor/Instructor

- [Michael Musick, PhD](http://michaelmusick.com)
- E-Mail: [michael.musick@umontana.edu](mailto:michael.musick@umontana.edu?subject=mart500%20Question).
- Office: McGill Hall, 232 (_By Appointment Only_).
- Appointment Link / Virtual Office Hours: [calendly.com/michael-musick](https://calendly.com/michael-musick) - Please select a meeting time from availability via the Calendly web service.


## Description

Introduction to the Language and Practice of Sonic Art introduces students to the field of sonic art. This course is intended as a foundation course to create shared terminology, skill sets, aesthetics, and techniques for students to utilize as they take additional sonic art, sound, or audio courses within the School of Visual and Media Arts (SVMA) or larger College of the Arts and Media (CAM). This course includes the study of notable examples in sound art, music, intermedia, and installation. Starting with the birth of electricity, Futurism, and Dada, students will examine the practices and innovations that led to the most current ideas about Sonic Art, and from here develop contemporary analytical methods for exploring Sonic Art. Additionally, students will apply this knowledge to the creation of their own sonic art works.

This course will involve a mix of;

- critical listening
- analysis of sonic art works
- discussions of articles and readings relevant to weekly topics
- writing about sonic art
- study of the science of sound, hearing, and psychoacoustics
- creation of sonic art works utilizing readily available tools and techniques.

Assessment of students will be conducted through written analyzes of artworks and readings, in-class discussions, and the creation of unique sonic artworks.

**NOTE:** Due to COVID-19, MART 245 (Intro to Sonic Arts) and MART 330 (Principles if Sound Design) have been combined. As such this document will refer to the class primarily as _Intro to Sonic Art_.


## Objectives & Student Learning Outcomes

Through this course, students are expected to demonstrate an ability to:

- Exhibit basic literacy in the aesthetics and techniques of sonic arts.
- Demonstrate an understanding and basic ability to utilize common ideas and vocabulary from the field of sonic art through writing and discussion.
- Identify and understand the scientific principles underlying sound, hearing, and psychoacoustics.
- Describe sonic arts in broader historical and cultural frameworks.
- Create original sonic art works using common tools for production and analysis.


## Course Modality/Format

Due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the Department of Media Arts has moved all of our classes to online/asynchronous or remote/synchronous for Fall 2020. As a result, this course will be delivered via a _online/asynchronous_ modality. This means all content is available via the web, for you to approach each week n your own schedule.

Additionally, I will hold an optional Zoom-based lecture. This lecture will not cover new material or material beyond the content available each week via the web. However, it will serve as an opportunity for students to hear about the content from me directly, engage with me, and ask questions.

#### Course Recording

This serves as an explicit declaration that all courses may be recorded. These will then be available for further study at a later time by students of the course.


## Course Websites

This course will be facilitated via multiple web technologies.

- Moodle -- Moodle will serve as a secure location for you to submit homework, receive feedback, and engage in discussion forums with your colleagues.
- [Content Website -- Content for this site will primarily exist on an exterior website, hosted via GitHub. This is where you will complete most of your learning. - montana-media-arts.github.io/intro-to-sonic-arts/](https://montana-media-arts.github.io/intro-to-sonic-arts/)




## Pre-Requisites

This is an introductory course intended for students interested in the field of sonic arts. As such, there are no pre-requisite courses or skills necessary.

## Books, Supplies, & Technology

This course does require your purchase or acquisition of some software and technology.

### Software

You will be required to have a working Digital Audio Workstation on your computer for assignments this semester. For this semester, instruction of technology specific skills will be demonstrated and taught in [Reaper](https://www.reaper.fm). Reaper is a widely used Digital Audio Workstation (DAW) compatible with macOS, Windows, and experimentally on Linux.

Although not an industry standard, per se, Reaper is widely used and includes many benefits to other DAWs. Of particular importance for this fundamentals level class is their financial model. Whereas, most DAWs cost hundreds of dollars, even for student discounted versions, Reaper takes a different approach. Initial downloads of the software include a 60-day trial. After 60 days, the software encourages you to purchase a license, but does not require it, and will remain fully functional. Licenses for individuals grossing less than $20k a year through their work with Reaper are only $60 and are perpetual (not yearly or subscription based) until major version updates occur.

<!--
For this semester, instruction of technology specific skills will be demonstrated and taught in [Ableton Live](https://www.ableton.com/en/shop/education/). This is an industry standard for creative applications with audio and sound. This is also a piece of software that will be taught in courses throughout the sonic arts track.

You are encouraged to purchase this software or utilize media art's computer labs, where it is available for student use.
-->

### Headphones

You will need to acquire a pair of headphones for work in this class. I would suggest you invest in a good pair, as part of your grade will be based on the technical quality of your work. If you cannot hear issues because you have poor quality headphones, then you are risking poor grades.

You are looking for reference quality headphones. That means headphones that present your audio to you as honest and neutral as possible. A bad mix should sound like a bad mix. Hyped headphones that accentuate bass or high frequencies in flattering ways can hide detail and mix issues.

_A discussion of headphones will occur on the first day of the course._

#### Suggested Headphones

Headphones, like all professional media gear can be cheap or incredibly expensive. With that in mind, you can get good quality headphones that don't break the bank. Here are a few of my suggestions.

**_Highly Suggested_**

- [Sony MDR7506 Professional Large Diaphragm Headphone - $90](https://www.amazon.com/Sony-MDR7506-Professional-Diaphragm-Headphone/dp/B000AJIF4E/ref=sr_1_1?s=musical-instruments&ie=UTF8&qid=1535053810&sr=1-1&keywords=MDR-7506#) - (An industry standard for recording and working with headphones)
- [Sennheiser HD280PRO Headphone - $100](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00IT0IHOY?tag=audiprodtips-20&ie=UTF8&th=1) - (I have had a pair of these since I was an undergrad. They are still my main pair of headphones for work when I need them. They are built to last and sound great.)

**_Other Recommendations_**

- [Samson SR850 Semi-Open-Back Studio Reference Headphones - $34](https://www.amazon.com/Samson-SR850-Professional-Reference-Headphones/dp/B002LBSEQS/ref=as_li_ss_tl?tag=studioheadphone-20&ie=UTF8&redirect=true&ref_=as_li_tl&linkId=29428ce379cfed3cb2be2666574f5db4) - These are the cheapest that will still “get the job done”.
- [AKG K240STUDIO Semi-Open Studio Headphones - $67](https://www.amazon.com/AKG-240-Semi-Open-Studio-Headphones/dp/B0001ARCFA/ref=as_li_ss_tl?tag=studioheadphone-20&ie=UTF8&redirect=true&ref_=as_li_tl&linkId=0f9783b2deabd78b1bcd62dc1b342c05) - These are great headphones. However, they are “semi-open” which will both improve sound quality for mixing and make anyone sitting within 10 feet of you potentially stare in annoyance.
- [Sennheiser HD 202 II Professional Headphones (Black) - $40](https://www.amazon.com/Sennheiser-HD-202-II-Professional/dp/B003LPTAYI/ref=pd_bxgy_23_2?_encoding=UTF8&pd_rd_i=B003LPTAYI&pd_rd_r=2edf0067-a70d-11e8-b9b0-b9c4745829eb&pd_rd_w=34QDu&pd_rd_wg=CK9Nu&pf_rd_i=desktop-dp-sims&pf_rd_m=ATVPDKIKX0DER&pf_rd_p=7ca3846a-7fcf-4568-9727-1bc2d7b4d5e0&pf_rd_r=V1R67GPDR1C7CYABY16N&pf_rd_s=desktop-dp-sims&pf_rd_t=40701&psc=1&refRID=V1R67GPDR1C7CYABY16N)
- [Audio-Technica ATH-M50x Professional Studio Monitor Headphones - $145](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00HVLUR86/ref=dp_cerb_3)
- [beyerdynamic DT 770 PRO 32 Ohm Studio Headphone - $165](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0778DNYPK?aaxitk=HMFdJ5SDf-t20usaXIOB-w&pd_rd_i=B0016MNAAI&pf_rd_m=ATVPDKIKX0DER&pf_rd_p=54dc821a-0937-4e6f-9da9-f8dd5443145d&pf_rd_s=desktop-sx-top-slot&pf_rd_t=301&pf_rd_i=DT770&hsa_cr_id=9048693010101&sb-ci-n=textLink&sb-ci-v=beyerdynamic%2BDT%2B770%2BPRO%2B80%2BOhm%2BStudio%2BHeadphone&th=1)


For more info, the following guide provides good information on the two major types of headphones and suggestions.

- [Best Studio Headphones: The Ultimate Musician’s Guide](https://ehomerecordingstudio.com/best-recording-studio-headphones/)

### Computer

You will need access to a computer capable of running modern audio synthesis and signal processing environments, as well as digital audio workstations (DAWs) and editing software. This computer should also be capable of real-time signal processing through analog inputs and outputs (i.e., using an audio interface or web cam). Please leverage departmental resources whenever necessary.

**NOTE:** This course will have an optional meeting via Zoom. If you intend to attend these meetings, you will need a computer capable of handling bi-directional video conferencing. This should also include a capable microphone, speakers, camera, and visual display.


### Books

There are no required texts that you must purchase for this course. All readings, music, or sound examples will be available to you through web links, the library, or the class Moodle.


# Policies

## Course Evaluation

Student work and progress will be assessed through:

- In-class participation, discussions and critiques
    - You are expected to engage with class discussions about technical and artistic issues.
    - You are expected to engage with class discussions about outside reading and listening.
- Artistic Projects
    - You will be assigned artistic projects to practice the techniques being discussed in class.
    - These are critical to your development.
    - Each project will involve an artistic component that allows you to explore the application of specific techniques/topics to your creative process.
    - These creative works will always be presented in class, followed by a formal critique by the professor so that all may learn collectively.
    - Each project also requires a written report detailing the work you did, the artistic concepts you engaged, your perceived success of the project, and influences on this work.
- Listening and Reading Responses
	- This course will require written engagement with ideas, issues, and techniques throughout the semester.
    - These written responses are an opportunity for you to practice incorporating language, information, and ideas presented in class, the readings, and listening into your academic work.
- Final Exam
    - There will be one final exam that tests your comprehension and understanding of the information presented in class.




## Grades

#### Final Grades

Grades will be determined according to the following breakdown:

- Forum-based participation, discussions, and critiques: 5%
- Creative and Technical Skill Development Projects: 60%
- Listening and Reading Responses: 10%
- Final Creative Project: 15%
- Final Exam: 10%


Letters are assigned according to the following final course percentages:

| Grade | % Range 	|
|:-----:|:---------:|
| A  	| `[93-100]`|
| A- 	| `[90-93)`	|
| B+ 	| `[87-90)`	|
| B  	| `[83-87)`	|
| B- 	| `[80-83)`	|
| C+ 	| `[77-80)`	|
| C  	| `[73-77)`	|
| C- 	| `[70-73)`	|
| D  	| `[60-70)`	|
| F  	| `[0-60)`	|


#### Late Work

IMPORTANT: Since projects are experienced and critiqued as a group through the discussion forum critique model, late projects are not permissible and will not be accepted.

Documentation assignments or weekly sketches handed in after the due date and time will have points deducted for lateness. This will be in addition to any points deducted for content. Those that are uploaded late but within one day of the due date will lose 5% for lateness.  For those uploaded after that, the number of deducted points will be at the discretion of the professor, who reserves the right to no longer accept it.

#### COVID-19 Consideration

If you contract COVID-19 during the course of this semester, I will work with you to as is at all possible, to help you stay caught-up or to catch-up.

<!--
## Attendance

- Attendance will be taken at the beginning of every class
- Critique days are mandatory. No exceptions. No tardiness.
- Contact me in advance if you will not be in class. (email is preferred)
- Unexcused absences will affect your grade.
    - One absence is allowed; after that, your final overall grade for the course will drop by 2.5% for each additional absence.
- You are expected to work with colleagues to catch-up on what you missed.
--> 

## Zoom Related Information

Classes may be offered via Zoom, at the discretion of the instructor, or as a result of University policies.

<!--
#### Zoom Attendance

When class sessions occur via zoom, you are still expected to be present in class. Even though most classes will be recorded and these recordings can be used to experience the conversation that occurred, these do not substitute for an in-class experience. As such, absences from zoom-based class sessions will be considered unexcused absences from the course.
-->

#### Zoom Etiquette

When attending class via Zoom, you are expected to act similarly to how you would if attending in-person. This means:

- Students should plan on having their cameras on so that everyone in the class may engage with them via discussion. (The Instructor will inform students when it is appropriate or necessary for cameras to be off.)
- Students should ensure that they attend Zoom-based courses somewhere with a sufficiently fast and large-enough-bandwidth internet connection so as to facilitate multi-directional video conferencing.
- Students should ensure that they are presentable visually.
- Students should ensure that their camera background is professional and free from unnecessary visual/audio distractions.
- Students should position themselves so that they do not need to constantly move around their space with their camera.
- Students should ensure sufficient lighting for their faces, so that everyone can engage with them.
- Students should ensure that the quality of their audio (both microphone and speakers) are sufficient to facilitate high-quality conversation.




## Academic Honesty, Plagiarism, and Cheating Policy

Students are expected to adhere to academic conduct policies of the University of Montana as explained in Section V of your [University of Montana Student Conduct Code](http://www.umt.edu/student-affairs/dean-of-students/Student%20Conduct%20Code%20-%20FINAL%20-%208-24-18.pdf):  “Academic misconduct is subject to an academic penalty by the course instructor and/or a disciplinary sanction by the University.  Academic misconduct is defined as all forms of academic dishonesty, including but not limited to:  (1) plagiarism, (2) misconduct during an examination or academic exercise, (3) unauthorized possession of examination or other course materials, (4) tampering with course materials, (5) submitting false information, (6) submitting work previously presented in another course, (7) improperly influencing conduct, (8) substituting, or arranging substitution, for another student during an examination or other academic exercise, (9) facilitating academic dishonesty, and (10) Altering transcripts, grades, examinations, or other academically related documents.”

Dishonesty will not be tolerated in this course. This includes, but is not limited to, cheating on tests, cheating on assignments, fabricating information or citations, having unauthorized possession of examinations, submitting work of another person or work previously used, or tampering with the academic work of other students.

Plagiarism is the presentation of the work of another without acknowledgment. As defined by the [University of Montana’s Student Conduct Code](http://www.umt.edu/vpsa/policies/default.php), plagiarism is “Representing another person's words, ideas, data, or materials as one's own.”  Students may use information and ideas expressed by others, but this use must be identified by appropriate referencing.

Students who cheat or plagiarize will receive academic sanctions, which may include an “F” grade on the assignment, examination, and/or in the course. Students will also be reported to the Dean of Students for possible further disciplinary action.

#### Using Code or Media Found Elsewhere

It is easy to find code and media (i.e. videos, sounds, images, etc.) online. If you use code or media from elsewhere (which you will at times), I expect you to cite the work and author.

If you use found code, you are expected to comment each line, as to what each line does programmatically. _Do not_ summarize several lines of code from a high level (i.e., TV Guide). I expect you to comment each line on a granular level. In addition, in these cases, I am also looking for significant modification of the code, for you to enact your own ideas and to experiment heavily. Significant modification means beyond variable name and value changes. It is bending these concepts to your idea, especially graphically. It is not a copy and paste job. Also, never more than 40% of your code may be supplied from elsewhere. Period. If you use code from online, whether for inspiration, modification or reference, I expect to see a link in your comments from where you got the code and who wrote it. Otherwise it will be considered as plagiarism, and you will fail the assignment. The code must have a reference, along with URL and be commented out LINE BY LINE.

If you use found media, *YOU* are responsible to ensure it is used according to fair-use guidelines. The pieces you make in this course are intended to be portfolio-quality works. Therefore, you should not utilize found media with restrictive use guidelines or licenses. You can read more about various licenses at;

- [opensource.guide](https://opensource.guide/legal/)
- [choosealicense](https://choosealicense.com)
- [GNU Licenses](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/licenses.en.html)
- [Creative Commons Licenses](https://creativecommons.org/share-your-work/licensing-types-examples/)
- [opensource.org](https://opensource.org/licenses)

For found media, you are also expected to cite the media in your documentation for the project.


## Sensitive Subject Matter & Censorship

This course operates under a no censorship policy, and you should feel free to experiment with challenging topics in your projects. That said - if you submit work with violent or sexually explicit themes, containing hate speech, racial slurs or other sensitive subject matter, I might contact you to request more background information on your choices.


## Be Kind

Be respectful to each other, help each other, and be considerate in your communications with the instructional team.  No trolling shared work and ideas. Be constructive with any critical feedback you give.

## Diversity Statement

Your experience in this class is important to me.  I welcome individuals of all backgrounds, beliefs, ethnicities, genders, gender identities, gender expressions, races, national origins, religious affiliations, sexual orientations, ages, abilities, and other visible and nonvisible differences. Please know that I will gladly honor your request to address you by an alternate name or gender pronoun.  All members of this class are expected to contribute to a welcoming, respectful, and inclusive environment for every other member of this class.


## Students with Disabilities

The University of Montana assures equal access to instruction through collaboration between students with disabilities, instructors, and Disability Services for Students. Students with disabilities are encouraged to plan ahead and can contact [Disability Services for Students (DSS)](http://www.umt.edu/dss/). If you think you may have a disability adversely affecting your academic performance, and you have not already registered with Disability Services, please contact Disability Services in Lommasson Center 154, or call (406)243-2243. I will work with you and Disability Services to provide an appropriate modification, that does not fundamentally alter the academic standards of the course.

## COVID-19 Specific Information


- Mask use is required if entering a classroom or if meeting with members of the University Community for official business.
- Each student is provided with a cleaning kit.  The expectation is that students will clean their personal space when they arrive for class or meetings, and before they leave the room.
- University spaces and rooms may have one-way entrances / exits to minimize crowding. Please follow these directions.
- Stay home if you feel sick and/or if exhibiting COVID-19 symptoms. Please cancel meetings.
- If you are sick or displaying symptoms, please contact the Curry Health Center at (406) 243-4330.
- If we have a meeting and you are sick or displaying symptoms, I will contact the Curry Health Center and also ask that we reschedule the meeting.
- Up-to-Date COVID-19 Information from the University of Montana
	- UM Coronavirus Website:  [https://www.umt.edu/coronavirus](https://www.umt.edu/coronavirus)
	- UM COVID-19 Fall 2020 website:  [https://www.umt.edu/coronavirus/fall2020.php](https://www.umt.edu/coronavirus/fall2020.php)

As a final reminder, we (The University Community) strongly encourage you to remain vigilant outside the classroom in mitigating the spread of COVID-19. The only way for this semester to be successful and to maintain minimal interruptions to the our educational mission is to insure the safety and health of all members of our community. Please remember that all decisions and choices made during this time hold this idea above all others; that the safety and health of our entire community is our most important goal.

#### In Case the Instructor Becomes Sick

If I become sick from COVID-19 during the course of this semester, I will do everything I can to maintain my teaching and mentorship, utilizing the existing modalities established for this semester. However, I will obviously be unable to utilize my university office and will therefore have to make adjustments.

If I become unable to attend weekly class sessions, I will alter the course such that you may continue with your individual projects in an appropriate manner. I will also likely ask that you continue to meet as a cohort, so that you can support each other in your research and artistic pursuits.


## Changes to the Course

I reserve the right to change the intended content of this course throughout the semester. This may be done to adjust for the speed of the class, to better meet educational goals, or to account for changes in technology.
