---
title: Homework
module: 5
jotted: false
toc: true
math: false
topic: Homework
---


**Homework Due: {{ site.data.dates[page.module][1] }}**


<br />



For this week, I want you to create an _ORIGINAL_ artwork that explores the ideas of audio reactive works.



Please take this as an opportunity to play and explore.

## Specifications

1. The work of art should be a visual representation of music or sound that is powered or driven by audio
2. Keep notes about your experimental process

Suggestion:  Use original music or royalty free music or sounds to avoid copyright issues
Resources: [Pixabay- Royalty Free Music](https://pixabay.com/music/)


## Deliverables

Follow the submission guide from [Week 2](https://montana-media-arts.github.io/340-interactive-art/modules/week-2/homework/) .

1. TouchDesigner Network
	1. You are required to submit your TouchDesigner Network this week.
	2. To do this, you will need to _zip_ the containing project folder for the network.
	3. If you have any media assets that you are utilizing (_this would only be the case if you added something beyond the tutorial_), please remember to include those within the network project directory, so that they are also zipped.
2. Screen Shots, Capture, and Renders
	1. Create a video of your TouchDesigner work using the [_Movie File Out_ operator, as discussed in this week]({{site.baseurl}}/modules/week-3/recordVideoOut/) 
	2. Alternatively, you can use [OBS to take a screen recording of your TouchDesigner network and resulting output]({{site.baseurl}}/modules/week-2/captureYourDisplay/).
	3. Include Audio in your final submission video
	4. Take detailed Screen Shots of your node network for documentation.
3. Write Up: Provide written documentation of process and experience with this project.
	1. Describe the visual. Explain your creative process.
	2. How is audio driving the visuals?
	3. What problems did you run into this week, and how did you solve them? 
	4. What's next? If this was displayed in a professional or public setting where would it be? (a gallery, a concert, at a sporting event, as an advert etc.)
	5. How was your experience working in TouchDesigner this week?  How would you approach this project differently?
4. Check out your colleagues work for this week.  Leave a comment or a brief critique.  

Works Cited: If you used any outside sources for this project.  Please cite them at the bottom of your post with a link to the source.

## Upload

You will upload your videos and images to the homework submission forum. You should also paste in your response as text to the post. 

Please submit all delieverables to the homework submission forum.

- [Week 5-Audio Reactivity Exploration- HW Submission Forum](https://moodle.umt.edu/mod/hsuforum/view.php?id=2299989)
