---
title: Homework
module: 6
jotted: false
toc: false
topic: Homework
---

<div class="embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9"><iframe class="embed-responsive-item" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_4_ZgdS_Frs" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

Over the last two weeks, you have been asked to follow along and complete 4 tutorials.

1. [Compositing Basic in TD - by Bob Jarvis]({{site.baseurl}}/modules/week-5/basicCompositing/)
2. [Basic Render Network Setup - by Matthew Ragan]({{site.baseurl}}/modules/week-5/basicRender/)
3. [Procedural Modeling and Rendering of a 3D Landscape - by Bob Jarvis]({{site.baseurl}}/modules/week-5/proceduralGeometry/)
4. [Noise Displacement in TouchDesigner - by Simon Alexander-Adams]({{site.baseurl}}/modules/week-6/NoiseDisplacement/)

<br />


I want you to create a TouchDesigner based artwork, that builds on one or more of these tutorials.

You are absolutely welcome to take the resulting network that you created while following along to these tutorials and push it. This could be done by;

- manipulating operator parameters to better understand what they do
- adding new or additional operators to the network
- rearranging operator signal flow in the network
- changing inputs within a network (i.e. webcam, movie, noise, etc.)
- _or something else that you want to try, experiment with, and explore!_

You do not need to recreate the wheel or start with a blank canvas. _Please_ feel free to build on the work of these tutorials in a direction that is most interesting to you.

## Specifications

1. The work of art must build on and go beyond the tutorials (this can be accomplished through ideas listed above)
2. Keep notes about your experimental process


## Deliverables

1. TouchDesigner Network
	1. You are required to submit your TouchDesigner Network this week.
	2. To do this, you will need to _zip_ the containing project folder for the network.
	3. If you have any media assets that you are utilizing, please remember to include those within the network project directory, so that they are also zipped.
2. A recording of your TouchDesigner Network work.
	1. This can be accomplished using the [_Movie File Out_ operator, as discussed in Week 4]({{site.baseurl}}/modules/week-4/recordVideoOut/).
	2. Alternatively, you can use [OBS to take a screen recording of your TouchDesigner network and resulting output]({{site.baseurl}}/modules/week-4/captureYourDisplay/).
3. Written reflection of this weeks tutorial and your derivative artwork assignment.
	1. You can submit this written response as text in the forum post or as a pdf document.
	2. Please also take a few moments to write about your reaction to the Simon Alexander-Adams tutorial, as well as the connected links.
	3. Additionally, please take a moment to reflect on your experience with the derivative artwork assignment from this week. You may choose to a-dress questions such as;
      - Are you feeling more comfortable in TouchDesigner?
      - Are you starting to get a sense of what TouchDesigner can do?
      - Are you starting to get a sense of how TouchDesigner could be utilized in your creative practice?
      - What problems did you run into this week, and how did you solve them?
      - Are you happy with what emerged from your work this week?

Please submit these three files to the homework submission forum. Although you are not required to, I would also encourage you to check out your colleagues work for this week, so that you are aware of the types of directions everyone is heading in.

- [Week 6 Homework Submission Forum](https://moodle.umt.edu/mod/hsuforum/view.php?id=1685123)
