---
title: Weekly Introduction
module: 8
toc: false
topic: Week 8&#58 Overview
---



Active: {{ site.data.dates[page.module][0] }}

Homework Due: {{ site.data.dates[page.module][1] }}

<br />


For this week I want you to do two things.

1. Initial Contemplation of Final Project
2. Self-Directed Investigation of TouchDesigner

## 1. Initial Final Project Proposal

At this point, there are just over five weeks left in the semester. To conclude your experience this semester with this course, you will be expected to create a final media art-based project, using TouchDesigner.

#### Expectation Discussion

These projects will be due: **Tuesday, November 10th @ 11:59pm.**

You will be expected to create a media art-based work that explores a topic of interest you have. Furthermore, building on the work from this semester, this work should be developed in TouchDesigner.

To submit this work, you will upload;

1. The TouchDesigner Network file, along with any associated external media. This will be uploaded as a `.zip` file.
2. A screen capture of the network, working in your computer.
3. A video representing the artwork in the best way possible. (_This will likely be a video recording of the TD output in "performance" mode._)
4. A discussion of your experience, the artwork, and future work you intend to complete with TouchDesigner.

#### Proposal Discussion

In starting to contemplate a final project proposal. You should consider what you have seen, done, experienced, and contemplated about TouchDesigner so far this semester.

By now, you have seen how powerful, complex, and diverse the output potential for TouchDesigner is. Hopefully, you have found specific topics, ideas, or projects that have peeked your interest, or that you have wondered about completing yourself in TouchDesigner?

Please take some time this week to write down a list of ideas about what you may want to do for a final project. After completing some brain storming, you should do some research as to the feasibility of your project idea in TouchDesigner. You can look for ideas about what you might do and what you are contemplating by looking at tutorials and examples from the Derivative website, searching YouTube, searching alltd.org, and generally searching the web.

_You are not expected to necessarily create this project from scratch. TouchDesigner is a big and complex environment. Instead, I suspect that many of you will combine elements and ideas from multiple tutorials and TouchDesigner examples. In other words, I expect many of you to use material and code from other people, that you pull together with additional code, and alter beyond the original. These should not be duplicative, but will contain derivative elements from other people's work._

You should pull together a list of references (tutorials, artwork examples, blog post discussions, etc.) that prove your idea may be feasible.

For this week, you are to submit a 1-3 paragraph discussion of what you might want to complete or attempt for a final project. This discussion should be as detailed as possible and should include any images you can offer to help ground your discussion. Following this discussion, please provide the list of references mentioned above.

Please save these initial proposals as PDF documents and upload with the second part of your homework assignment discussed below.

## 2. Self-Directed Investigation of TouchDesigner

Go find three TouchDesigner tutorials, with topics that are interesting to you and hopefully move you towards your final project goals. The intent of this is to start self-directing your work in TouchDesigner, towards topics and techniques that are interesting and hopefully _useful_ to you.

After identifying these tutorials please follow along and create the example demonstrated in the tutorial.

After completing the tutorials, you should create a new forum post in the homework forum for this week. There you will;

1. Upload your Initial Project Proposal PDF document.
1. List the names and provide links to the tutorials you completed this week.
2. Provide feedback about your experience with each tutorial (this should be as text in the forum post).
3. Create a screen recording of the final product for each tutorial, and upload the movie files individually with your post. (You should upload 4 files this week in total.)


To find TouchDesigner Tutorials, you could try;

- Google "TouchDesigner" + the topic of interest
- Visit the tutorial page on Derivatives website: https://derivative.ca/tutorials
- Visit the tutorial page on AllTD: https://alltd.org
